So what what I'm saying is that we can
manage cancer very very effectively in
the majority if not all cancer patients
by lowering the fermentable fuels,
glucose and glutamine and transitioning
the whole body to ketone bodies and
fatty acids because the liver burns
fatty acids and the rest of the cells
the brain can burn ketone bodies. All
organs can burn. Cancer cells cannot
burn fatty acids in ketone body. They
store them as lipid droplets. They're
not burning them.
[music]
>> Welcome to the low carb health doctor
podcast. [music] So, every so often I
make it a point to delve into the minds
of leading experts in metabolic health
and science to help us all understand
how to effectively
reverse hypertension, diabetes,
obesity and with the overarching goal to
really fight metabolic syndrome. So
cancer is one of the very serious health
problems in the world today and based on
statistics from the world health
organization it is among the top 10 most
significant causes of death globally and
today we shall be talking about cancer
and we are very much honored to have as
our guest professor Thomas Safereed.
Professor Safe is a distinguished
American professor of biology, genetics,
and biochemistry at Boston College. He
holds a master's degree in genetics from
the Illinois State University, and he
received his PhD in genetics and
biochemistry from the University of
Illinois Orbana Champagne. He further
honed his expertise with postdoctoral
studies in neurochemistry and genetics
at Yale University's department of
neurology where he served as assistant
professor. Professor St. Freed's
illustrious career spans over 200 peer
reviewed publications and he was
focusing mainly on the mechanisms
underlying chronic diseases such as
cancer, epilepsy and neurodeenerative
disorders. Currently he serves on the
editorial boards of several journals
including nutrition and metabolism, the
journal of lipid research, neurochemical
research and ASN neuro and his
groundbreaking work with his preeeminent
book published by Wle on cancer as a
metabolic disease has positioned him the
forefront of cancer research worldwide.
So I encourage you all to join us as we
explore cancer as a metabolic disease in
this very enlightening conversation with
Professor Thomas Cried. Professor
Caffred, a very warm welcome from the
low carb health doctor platform.
>> Well, thank you very much Dr. Don. It's
a a pleasure to be here and have the
opportunity to uh speak to your to your
following guests.
So first things first I think everybody
would like to know about your early
beginnings in cancer research professor.
So what I am particularly interested to
ask you is how did you eventually come
across the concept of cancer as a
metabolic dysfunction or a metabolic
driven disease? What got you most
interested into doing research about it?
Well, yeah. Thank you. Uh, well, I did
not uh start at all my scientific career
uh working on cancer uh or anything to
do uh with cancer. Uh my my my studies
were basically in mamalian genetics uh
and biochemistry.
Um I I was looking at um uh uh first at
UN at Illinois State University. I I
studied on a preeminent uh uh geneticist
Dr. Herman Brockman uh and neurospera uh
genetics looking at the effects of
mutations
uh on um adine pathways in in neurospera
uh mutagenic we were looking at
different mutagens causing mutations in
this bread mold. Then I went to the
University of Illinois and I studied
mouse mouse genetics um mainly looking
at lipid storage diseases. I became
fascinated with the field of ganglioides
which are very complex scalic acid
containing glyolippids.
Um I got a posttock to follow this work
with Dr. Robert U at Yale University the
late Dr. Robert U. Um and uh we started
looking at these glyolippids in
epilepsy. I was in a department where
every where the focus was epilepsy
um and um and and biochemistry. So to in
order to stay there Dr. you said you
better do something on epilepsy. So I
started looking at various epileptic
seizures in mice mapping mapping genes
uh that might contribute to disregulated
uh ex uh disregulated excitation in the
brain. Um and at the same time I was
trying to figure out what these
incredibly complicated lipids were doing
in the brain. So I was doing
developmental biology, biochemistry,
genetics, all these kinds of things. Um
>> that was in Yale University back.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Well, it start it started at
the University of Illinois and then I
took it on to Yale. I spent nine years
there at Yale first as a postoc then as
an assistant professor and and and uh
Dr. you had looked at some ganglioside
biochemistry in in tumors and um I
thought it would be a good idea to also
study ganglioides in tumors. Not not
because not not because of any desire uh
to cure cancer or understand it was more
to use cancer as a tool to understand
ganglioytes uh not not the reverse. Um,
but we made all these different brain uh
uh tumors in mice uh so I could study
the ganglioide distribution in the brain
tumors of the mouse to see whether or
not there might be any similarities uh
with human brain tumors and um I learned
a lot uh doing that and at the same time
I was mapping genes for epileptic
seizures. So we were doing a lot of
research and then I took a position at
Boston College uh in their biology
department where I could interact more
with students because mostly at Yale
you're dealing with professional
scientists, postocs and this kind of
thing whereas at Boston College you're
really working with undergraduates and
graduate students and then I brought all
my scientific technology from Yale
University and uh to Boston College and
also the various animal models that I
that I developed ed at at Yale in both
epilepsy and brain cancer. So um I I had
funding from uh NIH to study epilepsy
and map genes for epilepsy and uh and
then I got grants to study the role of
ganglioides
in angioenesis in tumors which is the
which is the role of uh angioenesis
abnormal blood vessels abnormal blood
vessels and around the late 90s early uh
2000 angiogenesis was a hot area in
cancer. So I I had found a ganglioide
that would inhibit angioenesis. So this
then gave me a couple of grants, but it
was nothing to uh wonder about the
nature of tumors and how they grew and
what was I wasn't thinking about
anything uh about that. And I like like
everyone else in the world uh thought
cancer was a genetic disease. Um because
I I taught students out of textbooks and
things like this and I didn't think I
didn't think anything about it. It was a
silent assumption. Everybody knows that
cancer is a genetic disease. I was more
or less
>> the general thinking for so long, right?
>> Yeah, me too. What did I I mean, I'm a
geneticist. I looked at the you know,
you find all these mutations in tumors.
It was very very complicated to me. uh I
I never really could figure what they
were looking at or why they had so many
mut but I didn't care one one I didn't
care that was another thing because I
was working on glyolipid biochemistry
and epilepsy and then uh I mapped many
genes in epilepsy and we learned I
learned a lot about epilepsy and then
one of my students here at Boston
College uh went said there was a big
meeting on ketogenic diets for epileptic
seizures in Seattle, Washington, and
asked me if she could attend the meeting
and uh and write an abstract. And she
says, "If my abstract is accepted, they
will pay my flight from Boston to
Seattle." And I I told her, "No one is
interested in ketogenic diets. It's a
waste of time." mainly because when I
was at Yale University, I wrote up a
small internal grant to them of this
neurology department, a leading
department in the world on epilepsy and
they told me no one cares about
ketogenic diets and epilepsy. So several
years later when my student wanted to go
to Seattle, I said if they're going to
pay great because I'm not going to pay
for you to go and learn about ketogenic
diets in epilepsy. But anyway, she went
to the meeting and we came back and she
was so excited about what she had seen
at this meeting. And um uh Jim Abrams uh
who started the Charlie Foundation uh
his son Charlie had a intractable
epileptic seizures and was near death
from all these seizures until they went
to John's Hopkins University where the
late John Freeman a and Millie his
assistant gave uh uh Charlie a ketogenic
diet and all of a sudden his seizure
stopped.
If you want to learn how to implement
the ketogenic diet and the press pulse
protocol into your cancer management,
just visit school.com/ keto for cancer,
the new community by our research
analyst Johnny Rockermeer. Within this
new community platform, you can connect
with other patients and learn from their
experiences.
You can also just search through the
posts other members have already made.
You will have access to our classroom
section as well, which provides
practical advice and tools for the best
results. These sections cover all parts
of the press pulse protocol that you
should implement. Starting with the
general scientific concepts by Dr.
Thomas Ciphford, we will show you how to
start the ketogenic diet, including
which foods to choose and which to
avoid. Additionally, we prepared a list
of doctors specialized in metabolic
therapy as well as details about
glutamine inhibition and hyperbaric
oxygen protocols. So, take a look around
at school.com/keto
for cancer.
If you want to learn how to implement
the ketogenic diet and the press pulse
protocol into your cancer management,
just visit school.com/keto
forcancer, the new community by our
research analyst Johnny Rockermeer.
Within this new community platform, you
can connect with other patients and
learn from their experiences.
You can also just search through the
posts other members have already made.
You will have access to our classroom
section as well, which provides
practical advice and tools for the best
results. These sections cover all parts
of the press pulse protocol that you
should implement. Starting with the
general scientific concepts by Dr.
Thomas Ciphford, we will show you how to
start the ketogenic diet, including
which foods to choose and which to
avoid. Additionally, we prepared a list
of doctors specialized in metabolic
therapy as well as details about
glutamine inhibition and hyperbaric
oxygen protocols.
So, take a look around at school.com/
keto for cancer.
So, um we have all these epileptic
models in the lab and Mariana Tran who
went to the meeting said, "Why don't we
try ketogenic diet on the on the
epileptic mice that we're developing
here?" And sure enough, it was
unbelievable. So I put the mice on a on
a on a ketogenic diet and the seizures
became much much less. So and then we
started to see that these ketogenic
diets could inhibit epilepsy regardless
of the ideology. Some people inherit
epilepsy from a gene predisposition.
Some people get a bang on the head. Some
people get viral infections. Some people
get tumors. didn't make any all all I
knew is that ketogenic diets were having
a suppressive effect on seizure activity
regardless of the ideology how how the
seizures came about. So then we did some
um we funny thing we we did some uh uh
calorie restriction uh we we at the same
time in my angioenesis project Dr. Muker
G joined my lab and she was big on
angiogenesis and we found this
ganglioide that would block
angiogenesis. So uh so we started to
look at calorie restriction and
angiogenesis calorie restriction and
epilepsy what stopping both blood
vessels and epileptic seizures. Um, and
then the two paths over overlapped. And
then all of a sudden I said, "Whoa, uh,
this, uh, calorie restriction, uh, we
uh, works to stop angioenesis and shrink
tumors, calorie restriction, uh, lowers
blood sugar, elevates ketones, stops
epileptic seizures." Like, what the
hell's going on with all this all this
stuff? Uh and then some drug company
gave me a drug that blocked ganglioide
synthesis
uh and maybe stopped angiogenesis.
And we looked at this drug and yeah
stopped angioenesis, shrunk tumors.
>> But what was happening is the drug was
preventing the mouse from digesting the
food that they ate
>> and and the tumors were shrinking. So it
was like an indirect calorie
restriction. Uh low you know reducing
glucose. you can't get if you can't get
the energy from the food and therefore
the blood vessels were stopping tumor
getting smaller. Um the same drug also
stopped the epileptic seizures because
the mouse couldn't eat the food he lost
weight. It's just amazing what happens.
Um but but you know these projects were
parallel but then they started to cross
and then I realized that the reason why
the drug was stopping the seizures is
because they couldn't get the glucose
from the food they were eating. And um
then I then I realized that uh had
anyone ever seen something like this
before? And Otto Warberg said a long
time ago that all cancer cells are
dependent on glucose to grow rapidly
because their oxidative phosphorilation
is in is defective. So I said, "Well,
who the hell is this guy Otto Warberg?
Uh uh I started around the year 2000 I
started to look into this German
scientist called Otto Warberg and
because I heard the name many times in
my education the Warberg apparately
early in the 1900s. Right.
>> Yeah. Well yeah he was Warberg did his
work in Germany in the from 1920
probably all the way up to his death in
1970 and he was working on the cancer
problem. Um and uh his his uh initial
findings said that all cancers are
dependent on a fermentation on a glucose
fermentation.
So um you can't you can't uh grow tumors
without their fermentable fuels.
So I said um
then I started looking into this more.
[laughter] Excuse me. And then I said
why they why they have to ferment? And
Warberg said their mitochondria are
abnormal. They can't get energy from
oxidative phosphorilation.
And then I said, "Oh, really? Is that
true?" So then we al because of my great
background in in biochemistry of lipids,
um, I had a student, Mike Kish, and I
said to Michael, "Uh, oh, first we did a
a big genetic study on mitochondria. We
looked at the mitochondrial genome in
all the in all the brain tumors that I
had and uh we found that not one of
these brain tumors had a had a genetic
mutation in mitochondrial DNA. So uh I
ruled that out. Um not to say that
mutations in mitochondrial DNA can't be
involved in cancer. I just said in my
five independent mouse brain tumor
models there were no pathogenic
mutations. So I said, well clearly
the cancer in these mice can't be due to
genetic mutations in the mitochondrial
DNA. So we decided to look at
cardiolippin uh and lipids in the
mitochondria. So Michael isolated and
purified the mitochondria isolated from
the five different brain tumors and
every one of them had abnormalities in
in cardiolippin.
Cardiol liippin is a major lipid in the
inner membrane of the mitochondrian
playing a a very important role in
oxidative phosphorilation. Okay.
>> So uh all of our models of brain cancer
had abnormalities in cardiolippin.
So and we knew from the lipid literature
uh that any abnormalities in
cardiolippin would if affect uh
indirectly oxidate to phosphorilation.
So when I saw that I said, "Oh, that
immediately supports Otto Warberg's
theory." Otto Warberg said that problems
in the mitochondria were responsible for
the tumor cell needing fermentation
energy because the mitochondria are
defective. So we published a big paper
in the journal of lipid research, the
number one prestigious journal in the
field of lipids on the cardipid
abnormalities in brain tumors directly
supporting Otto Warberg's theory. Um,
unfortunately the cancer field ignored
the study completely. I found out later
I couldn't understand. I thought I this
I thought this was the greatest thing. I
said we have direct biochemical evidence
supporting Otto Warberg's central theory
that oxidative phosphorilation is
abnormal in cancer cells. Directly
supporting what Otto Warberg said.
Meaning the cell has to ferment using
glucose as a fuel.
>> Definitely.
>> Yeah. So, but the field completely
ignored this and and I and I I went to
the AACR meetings, the American
Association of Cancer Research to
explain to some of the cancer uh guy
people doing research on cancer that uh
I said I support water Warberg's theory.
They said Warberg was wrong because
cancer cells have normal oxidative
phosphorilation. And I said, no, they
don't. I I tested this and then I looked
in the literature and there's never been
a a paper showing normal cardipin in any
cancer. So clearly uh cancers cannot use
oxidative phosphorilation but they it
turns out remarkably that almost
everybody in the cancer field was
studying genes and genomic sequences and
when I said to them that there's an
abnormality in cardipin you know what
they said they said what is cardioipin I
never heard of cardioipin
>> they haven't they they couldn't even
recognize cardioipin as a part of the
content
>> yes absolutely clueless
So, and then when you try to tell them
what cardipin is and how it works with
the electron transport chain, they have
no clue. It was like talking to electric
plug sockets. It it I I was I didn't
know what to say here. I thought it was
a great finding that could bring the
cancer field back on track because now I
had supported Otto Warberg's theory with
a lipid abnormal abnormal uh that a
lipid that plays an essential role in
the efficiency of oxidative
phosphorilation because of its location
in the inner membrane and it's abnormal
in all these cancer cells and that means
the cancer cell would have to ferment to
get energy from non oxidative source
exactly what Warberg said. So then I ran
up again.
>> There there's a problem in the electron
transport chains inside the mitochondria
that
>> Yes.
>> problem.
>> Yes. Yes. And we isolated and purified
the mitochondria from these tumor cells
and we sequenced the mitochondrial DNA
and we couldn't find any mutations but
the but the cardipin was always abnormal
to some degree or another. So wow. And
then I was like wow how come nobody
nobody understands this? How is it
possible? Well, they don't do lipid
biochemistry. They're all focused on
sequencing genomes, uh, looking at
thousands of mutations, and that's where
their their brain is. Their brain is not
in lipid biochemistry. Have no clue what
>> nuclear DNA, right? Nuclear DNA,
>> nuclear DNA, even mitochondrial DNA. And
the and the other thing, uh, we have to
isolate and purify uh the mitochondria
and then isolated the DNA from the
purified mitochondria. And then we
sequenced every single base. We we
actually corrected the genomic mouse
genome on mitochondrial DNA because we
sequenced every base and all of the
tumors, not one pathogenic mutation in
the mitochondrial DNA of any of the
tumors, but every tumor had
abnormalities in cardi in the
mitochondria. So the mitochondria
>> every every single tumor no matter the
the organ involved.
>> Well, the brain we were looking at brain
at that time. But but then since then
other people have looked at cardipin in
other t types of tumors and in all kinds
of tumors there are some abnormalities
in content or distribution of the fatty
acids in the cardipin molecular species
and so and we still know that nobody has
shown normal cardipin in any tumor to
this day. Um but the the power of the
cancer field was in two areas. Number
one, everybody thought it was a genetic
disease, so they didn't waste time
thinking about cardioin. Uh number two
is that many distinguished
uh biochemists who looked at energy um
uh uh said that cancer cells take up
oxygen similar to normal cells and
therefore uh they must have normal
oxidative phosphorilation despite the
cardioipin abnormalities. So even the
guys in the cancer field that knew
something about Warberg, uh they all
said Warberg was wrong. Uh cancer cells
consume oxygen in somewhat similar
levels to um normal cells. So I went
back and I read uh all of Warberg's
original findings had some of them
translated from German into English and
it was clear uh that was untrue. uh all
the cancer cells have a level of oxygen
consumption that was lower than the
oxygen consumption in in in normal
tissue of the same area, same species,
same tissue. You but what the cancer
field was doing, they were comparing rat
and mouse and human tumors all together
bunched together. And you you have to
compare human normal tissue with human
tumor. You have to compare mouse tumor
with mouse tissue, rat tumor with rat
tissue. You can't jumble them all
together and bunch them up. Otherwise,
you get no differences between normal
and and tumor tissue. So, you have to
clearly specify species difference,
tissue difference and look at normal
tissue, tumor tissue within the same
species within the same organ. Then you
see that there is a diff a reduction of
oxygen consumption in tumor tissue
compared to normal tissue. and the guys
in the field uh jumbled them all
together and clearly said Warberg is
wrong. Uh well, you didn't separate
species or organs. And I was shocked
that members of the scientific
profession would overlook those
significant uh problems. and Dean Burke
who was an advocate of Warberg clearly
mentioned the same problems but for
whatever reason a mind something wrong
with the brain of some humans. They
completely ignore obvious findings in in
uh only in light of what they know and
what they think the disease actually is.
Even when evidence is staring them in
the face, they refuse to believe it. So
I kept doing this research and finding
more and more evidence uh that uh
mitochondria were abnormal in tumors and
the reason why they needed to ferment
which was energy without oxygen is
because the oxidative phosphorilation
was was an error. And I know Warberg
made some mistakes u thinking that every
mole of oxygen consumed equals a certain
mole of ATP produced. every mole of
lactic acid produced was producing one
mole of of ATP through lactate. Those
calculations are no longer correct. We
have we have now defined what was
correct and what was incorrect. But one
of our biggest discoveries
uh which no one knows about and we've
published many papers they should know
about it. There are there's the third
way to get energy. See Warberg did not
know about mitochondrial substrate level
phosphorilation.
uh the c most of the people in the
cancer field have no clue about this and
listen unless you really really
understand mitochondrial bioenergetics
and energy metabolism you will make
mistakes so what I do in my life when
I'm confused or not clear about
something I seek out those individuals
that are world experts on a particular
problem
>> so when I learned about ketogenic diets
and calorie restriction. I would talk to
the late uh Richard Vichch all the time.
Vich was Hans Krebs's last graduate
student, one of the smartest guys energy
metabolism. Same with George Cahill. Uh
Cahill and Vichch the leaders in the
field of ketones and energy metabolism.
So when I looked at vital
[clears throat]
>> starvation, right, George Cahill stud on
starvation, human starvation.
>> Yes. Yes. He he was the expert on
starvation and Vich was an expert on
ketone metabolism. Um and then I went to
shristo shinopoulos at semlice
university the world expert on
mitochondrial substrate level
phosphorilation.
So I had this idea that these tumor
cells are getting significant energy
from a second fermentation pathway. The
first one is what Warberg said and
everybody agrees called the Warberg
effect. They get energy from the
fermentation, lactic acid fermentation,
using glucose as a fuel. Everybody knows
that they re they they they're confused
about why that happens because they
don't understand biochemistry. They
don't understand mitochondria abnormal.
Well, mitochondria abnormal, the cell
has to ferment and they and glycolysis
goes up.
So, but the big thing I I in my book I I
put together uh uh a pathway based on
the work of of Hokkachka, interesting
guy from Hawaii. Um he took these
animals and held them underwater, these
seals and and and walruses and and these
kinds of things. Um a dolphin or a
porpus or something. And and these are
animals that can live underwater for a
long period of time. And he strapped
them to a board and held them
underwater. Can you believe this? And
then he took blood from them uh while
they were holding their breath
underwater. And he found in the
bloodstream lactic acid and suinic acid
became very very high in the bloodstream
of these animals. And he said the suinic
acid was coming from amino acid
fermentation. Wow. Amino acid
fermentation. So that stuck in my mind.
>> Is that
>> Yeah. So, so then I know that cancer
cells need glutamine, which is the major
amino acid. And uh everybody in the
cancer field, almost everybody, I think
everybody thought the glutamine was
being respired, a respiration used for
oxidative phosphorilation. Wrong. We I
predicted I predicted that the glutamine
was also being fermented because lac
suinic acid the waste product of the
glutamolysis pathway was accumulating in
the blood just like lactic acid. So
lactic acid is the endroduct of the
glycolysis in the cytoplasm. Suxinic
acid is the endroduct of glutaminolysis
through the mitochondria. So the
mitochondria was not using the glutamine
for respiration. It was fermenting the
glutamine just like it was glucose. So
we use a non oxidative source. So I
wrote this mo model and I shared it with
Shinopoulos Christolo the world expert
on
>> yeah let me clarify that again professor
the glutamine is being fermented inside
the mitochondria as against the glucose
being fermented in the cytoplasm or
something like that to that effect. both
the both of them.
>> So, uh you get high elevation of of
lactic acid fermentation from glucose in
the cytoplasm
and then you get a a a
suinic acid
accumulation from the using glutamine
through the mitochondria and in a non
oxidative way. It's called a ferment.
It's called mitochondrial substrate
level phosphorilation.
Okay. Let's go down deeper. I'm sorry if
your audience doesn't understand uh what
I'm about to say. U there's two kinds of
energy that we can get in our cells.
Number one, oxidative phosphorilation
where we breathe oxygen and oxygen
serves as a common uh acceptor of
electrons driving electrons through the
electron transport chain producing at
large amounts of ATP
uh from the reducing equivalents in the
KB cycle citric acid cycle. That's why
you and I are breathing right now.
>> Okay?
>> We're breathing because we need energy.
You need energy to hear me. I need
energy to say something to you and
describe this. This is all oxidative
phosphorilation used from oxygen.
However, we evolved in a non our all
organisms that exist on the planet today
evolved originally in an environment
where there was no oxygen. They were
single cells, no oxygen, but they were
growing. Where the hell did they get
their energy from? Fermentation.
Fermentation is energy without oxygen.
Okay. So all of the cells most of the
cells in our body have ancient pathways
that take glucose to pyuvate and this
can happen in the presence or absence of
oxygen. Okay. So what we what we were we
were looking at then I and then I said I
read that there's a a a mechanism inside
the mitochondria
where we can generate ATP
through uh uh let me say again in the
cytoplasm it's called substrate level
phosphorilation
>> phosphorilation
>> the ATP
a phosphate group is moved from an
organic uh molecule
to ADP to form ATP substrate level
phosphorilation in the cytoplasm
oxidative phosphorilation in the
mitochondria.
Everybody in the cancer field and around
think there's only two ways to get
energy. Cytoplasmic substrate level
phosphorilation and mitochondrial
oxidative phosphorilation. But there's a
third. It's called mitochondrial
substrate level phosphorilation.
This is another form of energy that can
come without oxygen in the TCA cycle
inside the mitochondria.
I found why when hokka held the animals
underwater did that suinic acid go so
high in the bloodstream because the
glutamine in the blood which is so high
in humans and animals was being diverted
through that glutaminolysis pathway to
make energy in the mitochondria
independent of oxygen. So the same
organel can use two types of energy
substrate level phosphorilation or
oxidative phosphorilation whereas the
cytoplasm can only use substrate level
phosphorilation.
>> So
>> yeah that which is f fermentation is
energy without oxygen. So clearly we
were getting ATP a fermentation
mechanism within the mitochondria
itself. So
the mitochondria have this flexibility.
So when oxidative phosphorilation did
not work, they were using glutamine
amino acid fermentation. They were using
the glutamine as a fermentable fuel just
as the cytoplasm was gl using glucose as
a fermentable fuel. So I put the two
together. Now listen to this. As a
physician, you'll understand this very
clearly. If a person has a heart attack,
what you see in the bloodstream is a
immediate rise in glucose correction.
Lactic acid and suinic acid. Both of
them go up in the bloodstream just like
the animals that Hokkatchka was
drowning. Suinic acid and lactic acid go
high in the bloodstream. Why? Because
they have to switch to an immediate
fermentation metabolism. Now is if the
if the heart attack patient does not get
oxygen back into his system he will be
dead.
>> Okay. Now the cancer warberg said the
cancer cell is locked into a
fermentation metabolism because the
mitochondria are defective. So when we
look at all cancers they're all
producing lactic acid and suxinic acid.
So that tells us right away they're
locked into a fermentation metabolism.
But the fermentable fuels are glucose
and glutamine. Those are the two fuels
driving the the the growth of these
tumor cells. So without glucose and
glutamine, no tumor cell can survive
because they they can't use oxygen. No,
no tumor cell can survive for very long
in the absence of glucose and glutamine.
So I know I said a lot of stuff here,
but it represents years of our research
in the lab where I'm working with
Shannonopoulos and Siml Weiss University
and we're measuring uh uh fuels and end
products as the results. So listen to
this. You can uh uh if you and I or
anybody uh drink drink the cyanide, you
know, cyanide is a deadly poison.
>> It it works in the mitochondria, right?
>> Yeah. It shuts down it shuts down
oxidative phosphorilation immediately.
>> You you take cyanide, you're going to be
dead.
>> The cancer cell doesn't die from
cyanide. Okay. Well, that clearly tells
you he's not he's not needing oxidative
phosphorilation.
So [laughter]
cancer cells live without oxygen and
live in cyanide. I said, "What the
hell?" They're not using oxidative
phosphorilation. I don't care if they're
taking in oxygen. They're not using it
for ATP synthesis. And now we know that
they're uncoupled and and they have
other kinds of problem. But where they
get their energy from? So listen to
this. We then grew our tumor cells. No
glucose, no oxygen, only in glutamine.
And guess what we found? We found ATP
being produced, continual ATP being
produced and suinic acid being
accumulated.
Direct evidence that they're using
mitochondrial substrate level
phosphorilation as the third fuel.
Warberg knew nothing about this. He did
not know about this. This has confused
the entire cancer industry. They have
they first of all they have no clue
about most of what I'm talking about.
Most of the folks today at the top
medical schools are studying gene
mutations and chromosomal abnormality.
They're not they're not talking about
what I'm talking about. And the guys,
>> they're hooked to it. Seems like they
they've been hooked to it for a long
long time.
>> Oh yeah. Completely brainwashed.
Completely brainwashed on the
indoctrinated on this gene theory. So
what I'm saying, I I might as well be
talking to um a farm animal or
something. it it's not it's not going to
any not going to have any impact on the
brains of these people. So um even
though we have now defined what a tumor
cell needs to survive and grow and we
have tested these tumor cells and we
can't find any fuel except glucose and
glutamine to drive the disregulated
growth of the tumor cell. Okay, we've
interrogated all these fuels. We've
looked at all these different kinds of
things and I'm telling you now the other
thing when the mitochondria are
defective they can't switch to fatty
acids or ketone bodies. You need a good
mitochondria like Cahill and Vich told
me you can't burn fatty acids unless the
mitochondria are efficient and
functional. So my big paper just
recently published a few months ago.
What I did, oh I went through this
scientific literature for years and
looked at electron microscopy of human
cancer and every major cancer has
defects in the number and structure and
function of the mitochondria. Found that
out. Then I went back and I said wow um
if if if they have defects in
mitochondria structure and function they
will not be able to burn fatty acids or
ketone bodies. Okay. So and what and all
major cancers if you look at them under
the electron microscopy or in different
ways they all store lipid droplets in
the cytoplasm. So you can see all the
lipid droplets in the cytoplasm of the
tumor cell. Why? Because the
mitochondria are defective. The cell the
fatty acids accumulate to protect the
cell from death. So they accumulate
these lipid drops. So, so every major
cancer with defects in number, structure
and function of mitochondria have
accumulation of lipid drops in the sub
in the in the cytoplasm. A clear
biioarker for abnormal mitochondria
>> because because they are not being
utilized by the cancer cells. That
correct?
>> Yes. The exact
>> lipids. Exactly. You understand that,
right? And I put the paper out. Guess
what? Everybody in the cancer,
everybody, almost everybody in the
cancer field thinks the fatty acids are
there as energy for the tumor cell. How
could it be there for energy when the
mitochondria defective and broken? So,
they're studying all kinds of gene
mutations trying to figure out why the
cells are storing these lipid drops. Oh,
it must be for the energy of the timid.
They cannot use that. So,
>> yeah, I think it uh let me interrupt a
little bit, professor. It's like uh the
lipid droplets are not being utilized by
the mitochondria
because the mitochondria is defective or
damaged. Correct.
>> Yes. Exactly.
>> And only and only the fermentation
pathway works in the cancer cells. But
these lipid droplets are not being used
in the fermentation pathway either.
Correct.
>> That's exactly right. Exactly right.
So the the lipid drops are a biioarker
for abnormal oxidative phosphorilation
and the and the dependency on
fermentation. So just looking at a and
all major cancers looked at under the
microscope have these lipid drops and to
see the mitochondria have to use
electron microscopy to see the
mitochondria and invariably they're
always damaged. They're always some
abnormality. Makes perfect sense. bad
mitochondria, lipids have to accumulate
because if they don't accumulate, they
actually dissolve membranes and will
kill the kill the cell. So, they're
stored in droplets as a protective
mechanism.
>> So, if if you read and right now, if you
if you and your friends go to the
literature and look up lipid drops in
cancer, 99% of the papers will say that
those lipid drops are used for the
energy for the for the tumor cell. uh
exactly the opposite of what I'm saying
because they don't believe that
mitochondria are defective even though I
show them pictures of this and they this
is brainwashing because cancer must be a
genetic disease. So all this stuff
you're talking about can't be true can't
be can't be real. So so [laughter]
this is the problem. So so now we know
>> it's like it's like almost a dogmatic
belief that that that cancer is a
genetic problem. B.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah.
>> Yes. Exactly. All the stuff I'm talking
about doesn't mean anything because it's
a real it's due to the mutations. So,
so, so then uh after after I I supported
Otto Werberg absolutely supported his
central theory, I've cleaned up the mess
around his theory with all the in miscon
uh misunderstanding, misinterpretation
of the data. Uh uh and now I show a
third form of energy that can also
clarify
that nobody knew about mitochondrial
substrate level phosphorilation that
explains why we have two fermentable
fuels not just one fermentable fuel. And
then in in in the clinical in patients
and in pre-clinical models of brain
cancer and other cancers when you lower
blood sugar and elevate ketones the
tumors begin to shrink angioenesis goes
away and the patients get much
healthier. Okay, without chemo and
radiation or any of this stuff. So
what's going on here? Why why is that
happening? Because the tumor cell you're
taking away one of the major fuels for
the tumor cell. So now if we take if we
put the cancer patient on on
calorierestricted ketogenic diets almost
anything to get a low glucose ketone
index putting them in nutritional
ketosis
and then on low carb diets or whatever
and then you come in with parasite
medications. Why parasite medications?
Because I have found in my research that
the parasite and the cancer cell use
mitochondrial substrate level
phosphorilation to stay alive.
>> Which which parasite medications are you
talking about?
>> It seems like most of them I I have a
big article here on parasites. It seems
like a lot of parasites use the same
pathway.
It's very interesting. Parasites uh use
oxidative phosphorilation during the
replica during their sexual cycles and
replication but once they go and sit
inside the tissue they switch to
substrate level phosphorilation. The
cancer cell is locked into substrate
level phosphorilation.
So but you parasite medication by itself
has some therapeutic benefit. It's when
you combine it with calorierestricted or
state of nutritional ketosis. Now you're
pulling the plug on both glucose and
glutamine. So we have a paper that we've
just published in pediatric brain cancer
with embendazol which is a parasite
medication uh has embendazol has a an
effect on reducing glycolysis and
glutaminolysis the two fermentable
pathways. So [laughter]
once you understand the biology all this
stuff makes complete sense uh you know
how to meendol that is being used by the
paracettologist to control the helmets
the anti-helmetic medication.
>> Yeah.
>> Also targets the same energy pathway in
the cancer cell.
>> I see.
>> Yeah because I found out how why they
kill parasites because parasites use
substrate level phosphorilation as an
energy source just like the cancer cell.
This stuff is like what the hell? It's
so simple, you know, and and everybody
say, "Oh, parasite, take parasite
medications." Yeah. But if you take
parasite medications while under
nutritional ketosis, it works a hell of
a lot better. Really works better. So,
um, what I have told you and I have the
evidence. I'm publishing papers. I mean,
what I'm saying is is out. You can read
you can read the articles. So what what
I'm saying is that we can manage cancer
very very effectively in the majority if
not all cancer patients by lowering the
fermentable fuels glucose and glutamine
and transitioning the whole body to
ketone bodies and fatty acids because
the liver burns fatty acids and the rest
of the cells the brain can burn ketone
bodies. All organs can burn. Cancer
cells cannot burn fatty acids in ketone
body. They store them as lipid droplets.
They're not burning them. So, you can
starve the cancer cells by taking away
their fermentable fuels while
transitioning the whole body off to a
non-fermentable fuel, ketone bodies,
which we evolved as a species to burn.
So, you have to transition the cancer
patients from a high carbohydrate diet.
You gradually lower the carbohydrates,
the body's glucose goes down, ketones go
up, and when they get into this zone
that we publish 2.0 or below, the ratio
of glucose to ketones, you hit them with
the parasite medications, and you start
gently hitting them with the par or or
glue glutamine glutamate glutamolysis
targeting drugs. But you have to be very
careful when you do this because our
immune system when you kill cancer cells
the immune system comes in to pick up
the dead cancer cells. The immune cells
need the glutamine also. So you must be
very careful on how you target the
glutamine in the cancer patient. The the
cancer gut the health of the of the biom
the microbiome and the gut is glutamine
dependent. If you are too aggressive
with the glutamine targeting drugs, you
could harm the immune system and the
gut. So you that's why we developed the
press pulse therapy for managing cancer.
You press glucose down and choke it
because it our body can switch to
ketones. So you don't need glucose. But
the ca but the glutamine you must pulse
and take off. Pulse and take off. So you
have to be very strategic with the
glutamine targeting because our immune
system must come in and pick up the dead
cancer cells to to correct and heal the
mic the cancer micro environment. All
this is completely logical. It's based
on the underpinnings of the failure of
the cancer cell. Can't they're very
inflexible. They only can do
fermentation. They can't switch to
anything else. So they're very easy to
kill if you know how to kill them
logically. But what are they doing?
They're using imunotherapies optivo and
katruda and they're using all these
toxic drugs all based on the somatic
mutation theory of cancer the gene
theory of cancer if the theory is wrong
the outcome will never be optimal then
outcome will never be optimal so we
continue to uh treat cancer patients
with toxic poisons radiation
imunotherapies
I'll tell you the reason the genome
multi multi-billion dollar genome
project was supposed to provide us with
precision medicine, personalized
precision medicine. It has been an
abysmal failure. This this whole thing
that's why we continue to irdiate and
poison the cancer patients because the
promise of the genome theory, the gene
theory never materialized because cancer
is not a genetic disease. It's a
mitochondrial metabolic disorder driven
by fermentation. So in order to mi
manage cancer you must target the
fermentable fuels transitioning the body
over to non-fermentable fuels and the
cancer cells will die as the body as a
natural healing machine will take will
take care of the the micro environment
and heal the cancer. Um this will be the
new theory of this will be the new
metabolic treatment of cancer in
eventually everybody in all medical
centers throughout the world will be
treating their patients with metabolic
therapy once the brainwashing from the
gene theory uh dissipates. How long will
that I don't know because the National
Cancer Institute continues to tell
people cancer is a genetic disease. 100
different types of cancers that's all
incorrect information. I have looked at
all those cancers. They're all
fermenttors. They're not different from
each other. Yes, liver is different from
brain, different from colon, different
because it comes from a different organ
for crying out loud. But if you look at
the C, they're all fermenting. Every one
of these cancer cells are fermenting. So
you can use a singular procedure to
eliminate or manage. Let's just say I
never want to say that metabolic therapy
is a cure for cancer. It's an effective
non-toxic
management of cancer. There is a chance
you could be cured, but there is a
chance you may need to live with this
disorder for the rest of your life. Like
our friend Pablo Kelly with the brain
glyopblasto, it's 10-year survivor. The
tumor never went away completely, but it
grows so slow. Every now and then he
gets a a resection of the tumor, but
he's alive. He's alive.
>> Pablo Pablo is in the UK, right?
>> Yes. Yes. Okay. So, here's a situation.
Oh, it's just so so crazy. So Pablo, N
of one, N of one, one guy, he decides no
radiation, no chemo, no steroids, and
now he's alive 10 years later.
And the field says all the patients that
they treat with standard of care, 95% of
them are dead within two and a half
years. Here's one guy who chooses not to
do standard of care and then he's still
alive. Why? Why you don't want to do it,
Pablo? So, so,
so the the the the system refuses the
system refuses to stop irdiating the
brain. So, I talked to the I talked to
the neurooncologist.
So, I said you need three group. Okay.
The group standard of care 95% of people
are dead in three years, two and a half,
three years. 95% are dead. Why don't
then they say we'll do we'll do
metabolic therapy with radiation. Okay,
we'll do that. They make that. Well,
some of these folks are living a little
longer uh and they're doing better. Not
all of them, but we're getting more and
more longer longer term survivors,
right? So, I said, why don't you do
metabolic therapy without brain
radiation? And they said, oh, no, cannot
do that. And then I wrote many papers
showing how brain radiation frees up
massive amounts of glucose and glutamine
in the micro environment of the tumor.
In other words, forcing the tumor cells
to survive and grow. In other words,
contributing to the death of those
patients. There has not been one single
advance in brain cancer survival for
glyobblasto in 100 years. Not one
survivor for one not one major advance
in a hundred years. And they keep doing
the same thing over and over and over
again expecting some different thing.
>> Yeah. This brain irradiation as you said
increases the level of glucose in the
brain tissue itself. This is this
separate from because we we neurologists
uh also give uh steroid medications to
cancer patients. So is this separate
from from this the effect of these
steroids?
>> It's it's it's uh radiation uh when your
body is uiated the blood sugar goes up
naturally. It's a threat response. your
hormonal gluccocorticoids are released,
your body is under threat, so they'll go
up. And then when you irdiate the
person's brain, there's heating and
swelling from from all the the
radiation. So you give highdose steroids
to reduce the swelling from the
radiation, which further increases the
level of glucose in the bloodstream
[laughter]
and then they wonder why
the patients are all dying. I mean
>> so so you mean you mean to say ideally
given that scenario
uh the brain in in cases of brain tumors
or brain cancers should not be
irradiated then
>> oh absolutely they should never be
irdiated ever
right uh so so you have a tumor in the
brain the first thing you do is you
powerful metabolic therapy it will
shrink the angioenesis it'll shrink down
the tumor small. Then the neurosurgeon
comes in and cuts out the small tumor
that is now has a sharp defined L. The
tumor cells come back uh into the
center. When you take away glucose, they
come back into the center to to get the
micro environment because there's
glucose and glutamine in the micro
environment. So you do med uh parasite
medication, calorierestricted ketogenic
diets, shrink the tumor down, the
neurosurgeon comes in, takes out the
tumor, and you transition the patient
back to metabolic therapy. You never
bring that person to radiation in the
brain.
>> Are you passionate about the
groundbreaking and heroic research of
Dr. Thomas Ciphford on metabolic therapy
and cancer? So are we. That's why we've
created something special for you in
collaboration with Johnny Rocker, a
German book publisher and translator.
Introducing our collection of
meticulously crafted books that distill
the essence of Dr. Safe Reed's work.
Dive into the science and discoveries.
These summary books are your gateway to
understanding the intricate world of
metabolic ketogenic therapy in a clear,
concise, and engaging way. Whether
you're new to the subject or a seasoned
enthusiast, our books offer insights
that can change your life. Ready to
explore this transformative knowledge?
Visit our website at www.cancer as a
metabolic disease.com to get your copy.
You can buy the ebook there directly and
the paperbook via the provided links.
Here's the best part. A portion of every
purchase goes directly to support Dr.
Thomas Safereaded's groundbreaking
research. That's why the direct ebook
purchase is the best option to donate as
much as possible. You can see all of the
donations Mr. Rocker has already made at
www ketoforcancer.net.
That's right. When you buy our books,
you're not just investing in your own
knowledge, you're also contributing to
the future of cancer research. Help us
make a difference. Together, we can
drive change and save lives.
So I have told these radiation
oncologists about this over and over and
over again. I published a paper Lancet
oncology. I published these papers
everywhere. Nobody wants to believe it.
Nobody. Yet Pablo is exa you have how
you change the system. So the only way
to change the system is to educate the
people because apparently the uh
neurooncologists are uneducable. They
they're for whatever reason they cannot
be educated. It's it's [laughter]
there are some people you cannot
educate. I I say I I'm sorry I have to
be say these kinds of things, but I
don't know what more evidence that I
could do other than give myself a brain
tumor and not have any radiation and do
metabolic therapy to see if I can
survive. I mean, is that the kind of
evidence that somebody would believe?
But I got Pablo and I got other brain
cancer patients out there that are
living much longer on metabolic therapy
if they can avoid radiation. And even if
they are radiating, the metabolic
therapy can help them live longer even
though they were radiated. So, so, but
why you do radiation in the first place?
And you know what they say? They say,
"Well, I don't believe you because
cancer is a genetic disease. Don't you
know it's a genetic disease?" So, what
you're talking about is no relevance.
>> It still goes back to the wrong
assumption from the very beginning.
>> Yes, absolutely.
>> The genetic cause supposedly. I I just
received today several uh papers showing
how targeting gene mutations in brain
cancer can help the cancer patient.
>> I mean, yeah, [laughter] can it's
worthless. Absolutely worthless. And the
federal government is spending all this
money on these kinds of studies uh toxic
chemicals uh finding gene targeting gene
mutations inside a tumor that already
has 100,000 mutations. So uh it's
unbelievable how the human brain once
it's indoctrinated. I guess you can say
for religion for political reasons you
cannot convince someone that one
religion is better or not better than
the other one. Your brain is
indoctrinated. The same thing happens to
the cancer people. They think cancer is
a genetic disease. So what I did I went
out and we found papers that no one
likes to talk about. Cancer cells have
no some cancer cells have no mutations.
Okay. How you explain disregulated cell
growth if I have a cancer cell with no
mutation? Oh, forget about it. Don't
don't talk about it. Then I found out
that only some mutations are bad. Like
driver mutations, these are the bad
ones. Passenger mutations, they're just
there. They don't do anything. The
driver mutation within the last five
years, we do now sequencing in different
organs of our body. And we're finding
all these driver mutations in normal
cells that never become disregulated in
cell growth. How do you explain that?
And then I did the nuclear transfer
experiments. I I put that together where
the cancer nucleus loaded with mutations
is put into a new cytoplasm and the
results are regulated growth. Whereas if
I take the normal nucleus and put it in
a cancer cytoplasm, I get disregulated
growth. So the the driver of the
disregulated growth is in the cytoplasm
with the mitochondria. Not in the
nucleus.
>> Not in the nucleus.
>> Not in the nucleus. Can you believe
this? Can you believe what I just said?
This is why we in the United States, we
have 1,700
people a day dying from cancer. Uh 70
people an hour. And most of the people
that 50% of the people dying from cancer
are dying from the toxic treatments used
to manage the cancer. Can you believe
this?
This is a tragedy of the greatest
monumental in the history of medicine.
Nothing could be more tragic than the
current cancer situation. A m of lock
lack of knowledge, a failure to accept
or understand the knowledge that's
there. So that the status quo is not
changed. The status quo must persist.
Radiation, poisonous chemicals, and this
is what you do one after another. Uh and
I'm telling them you a lot of this is
not necessary. and they don't believe me
and I say, "Here's the evidence." They
don't want to look at the evidence. They
don't ignore the evidence. So, what are
you gonna do? [laughter] What's What's
the solution to this problem? Even
though you have people living longer, it
works. People are living far longer
doing metabolic therapy and they don't
want to believe it. So, I I I what am I
what am I going to do? I just told you.
And I publish all this stuff. It's not
like I'm keeping it to myself. I'm
sharing it with the world and nobody
wants to hear it.
>> Yeah. And I've heard of others also
having the same experience. And you talk
about Pablo Kelly. I think uh you've
heard probably also Andrew Andrew
Scarboro.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Also in the UK I think both
both of them has glyobblastoma
multififoring GBM. Is that correct?
>> Yeah. Both of them.
>> Scarbor had Scarbo had a anoplastic
astroytoma grade three. But um and
here's the other thing with Pablo Kelly.
Oh, this just kills me. It breaks my
heart. He had an Idh1 mutation. Okay,
Idh1 mutation. I call it God's gift to
the cancer patient. If by chance you get
this muta m the Idh1 mutation by chance
acts as a drug that stops glycolysis and
glutaminolysis pathways interferes with
the ability of those two pathways to to
prevent provide energy for the tumor.
The it the mutation produces two
hydroxylutarate. It's a a product of
this mutation. two hydroxyglutarate
inhibits glycolysis
and inhibits glutaminolysis
the two pathways driving the
disregulated growth. Now here's the
crazy. So people with the Idh1 mutation
uh live twice to three times longer than
the glyopblasto patient who does not
have this mutation. Right? So
uh so then they what they did was they
reclassified GBM based on the presence
or absence of the Idh1 mutation. So they
call it glyobblasto
um a high-grade stage 4 uh Idh1 uh
glyoma uh versus uh a mutant versus the
wild type grows faster, the mutant grows
slower, but it's still glyopblasto.
So now companies at John Hopkins think
that mutations are bad. They think the
Idh1 mutation is bad. So then they're
going to make a drug to stop the
accumulation of two hydroxyglutarate,
the the the the compound that's stopping
the growth of the tumor. So they gave uh
patient uh the drug and it killed the
patient faster than if they had done
nothing to the patient, but they keep
doing the drug. They put uh drug
companies put all this money into these
drugs that are taking away God's gift
because they have no clue about the
metabolism of cancer. So they think all
mutations are bad. So, they're making
drugs to stop two hydroxyglutarate,
which is giving the patient an
opportunity to live longer. Can you
believe the insanity of what we're doing
out there? This is terrible. So, this is
and I've told people this. And I wrote
the I wrote a letter to the the company
that's making the drug to stop this. I
never heard back from them. They ignore
me. So you can make money selling these
terrible drugs to these cancer patients.
Killing inadvertently killing taking
away whatever advantage the patient may
have. Eradiating the brain taking it
taking putting that patient in a much
greater probability of death than if you
didn't do that. Why you do that? Because
they need to make money on these
patients. This is the key. It's more
important to revenue generation than it
is for the outcome of the survival of
the patient. I hate to say that, but
that's the truth.
>> No, no, no drug intervention, no money,
then no business.
>> Yes. Okay. Well, they should know that
that uh oncologists should say, "Thank
you for coming in. Your your your
affliction will keep me my my family in
in in uh in in financial security." So,
but you can't say that. And then the
other problem is uh terrible situation
in this country. We and not only does
the uh many of these drugs cause
horrific toxicity but even if you don't
survive uh which happens many times uh
you have to pay an enormous price for
these failed drugs and that causes
financial toxicity. So, a lot of poor
people who earn money paycheck to
paycheck, uh, they get hit with a bill
for 10 or $15,000,
uh, for for for a drug that didn't work,
uh, and they have no way to pay for this
and then their whole their marriage to
forms apart. The patients went to
bankruptcy, they lose their house. This
is immoral. This is immorality at its
highest level anywhere. Okay? This is an
immoral immoral system doing this to
another human being. Not only are you
poisoning and killing them, but then
you're charging them and breaking apart
their finances as the result of this.
Can you believe this? Can you believe
what's going on here?
that that holds a lot of par parallelism
with with uh with with this thing about
reversing metabolic syndrome and insulin
resistance also because there are so
many drugs there that are meant to
target diabetes, hypertension and all
the complications of insulin resistance
without them really acknowledging the
fact that the root cause can always be
stopped so that this will not progress
and the medications will eventually be
stopped. I think that's the same case
with cancer as a metabolic disease then.
>> Yeah. Well, we have uh Guy Tanabomb uh
who is on the web. Uh he had stage four
prostate cancer metastasized to the
bones, but he was obese.
>> He had type 2 diabetes, hypertension,
and high blood pressure. Uh so the
doctor said he's going to be dead in
about a year. So he did water only
fasting, low carbohydrate water only
fasting. His cancer went away, his
diabetes went away, he lost 35 pounds,
hypertension, all the things that went
away, all linked to the same chronic
problem. So, uh uh obesity has now uh
replaced smoking as a major risk factor
for cancer. We have more obese people on
the planet today than we have starving
people on the planet today. Can you
believe this?
>> Yeah. Why? Why do you think obesity is a
major risk factor in cancer? because it
creates
>> what's the what's the connection?
>> It's it's linked to systemic
inflammation. So, uh if you look at C
reactive protein which is a marker for
inflammation. Uh many people have
elevated C reactive protein, type 2
diabetes, uh coronary artery, they have
all these chronic diseases besides they
might have cancer and there you do
markers for inflammation in the
bloodstream and you see elevated markers
of inflammation. So how does
inflammation cause cancer? You in other
words, you can't get cancer if
mitochondria are healthy. Chronic
inflammation and the uh uh the cytoines
were linked to inflammation NFCAPPA B
and all these damaged oxidative
phosphorilation chronically in different
cells of certain organs leading to a
dependency on fermentation and
disregulated cell drug. So I can link
back all of the origins of cancer.
Viruses damage oxidative
phosphorilation, radiation, intermittent
hypoxia, systemic inflammation, age
viruses, ankcoen papilloma viruses,
pappatitis C viruses. All of these
things cause cancer by chronic
disruption of oxidative phosphorilation
coupled to compensatory fermentation
followed by disregulated cell growth.
The mitochondrian controls the
differentiated quiescent state of the
cell. When that organel becomes
corrupted, it loses control. cell falls
back on ancient pathways of fermentation
that existed before oxygen came into the
atmosphere and all the cells at that
time were disregulated in their growth
because there was no mitochondria to
control the growth. Everything is
completely explainable on the on the
understanding biology, biochemistry and
evolutionary biology. So the epidemic
the obesity epidemic today is evolution
in action. Our ancestors that existed
during the Paleolithic period survived
on very low carbohydrate diets. They
they had very little uh sugar
availability, carbohydrate in the
environment. We had to kill and eat
animals. We ate whatever plants we could
find that were edible, a very little
high carbohydrate diet, right? And we
evolved over tens of thousands of years
to exist in extremely low carbohydrate
environment. Then within a period of a
hundred years, we're confronted by
massive amounts of readily available,
highly processed carbohydrates. And
immediately you get an obesity epidemic.
And the epidemic now is associated with
all these chronic diseases because the
foods are readily available. Very little
exercise. Everybody's sitting in
traffic, you know, sitting in front of
the computer doing this and that. No
exercise, highly processed carbs that
taste delicious. Absolutely delicious.
We sought this for existence on the
planet. Now they're available in and we
eat get fat, get diabetes, get cancer,
cardiovascular disease, dementia. All
these things are the result of our
advance in food technology and science.
So evolution of food technology and
science has happened far far faster than
the evolution of our physiology. We're
still locked in a paleolithic existence
in a new environment of highly processed
carbohydrates and the results is the
obesity epidemic. So people want to know
evolution. They don't want to understand
evolution. Look at the obesity epidemic.
Evolution in action completely
explainable on concepts of physiological
biochemistry. So, so, so that explains
then some quarters that say maintaining
oneself on a polyolithic way of eating
would be of optimal benefit. If that's
the case,
>> yeah, I if you I said you can't it's
hard to get cancer and diabetes if your
mitochondria remain healthy. You know,
it's it's I mean that's the way we
evolved. Uh we're we're an efficient
machine, an energy machine inside of our
body, largely controlled by
mitochondrial structure and function. So
I if you're pounding this poor organel
with high carbohydrates creating
systemic inflammation and all of these
other lack of exercise that organel
becomes corrupted and if if it's and
then it switches to fermentation leading
to disregulated cell growth or insulin
insensitivity
or you know cardiovascular disease due
to inflammation. All of these things are
inflammatory linked to abnormal diet and
lifestyle. So yes, but yet we like it
and and we like the tasty foods uh that
have come from our ingenuity and
technology. But the problem is in the
old days most people eat were loco
fours. Loco fours are people that eat
originally grown uh foods and
vegetables.
>> Are you passionate about the
groundbreaking and heroic research of
Dr. Thomas Ciphford on metabolic therapy
and cancer? So are we. That's why we've
created something special for you in
collaboration with Johnny Rocker Meyer,
a German book publisher and translator.
Introducing our collection of
meticulously crafted books that distill
the essence of Dr. Safe Reed's work.
Dive into the science and discoveries.
These summary books are your gateway to
understanding the intricate world of
metabolic ketogenic therapy in a clear,
concise, and engaging way. Whether
you're new to the subject or a seasoned
enthusiast, our books offer insights
that can change your life. Ready to
explore this transformative knowledge?
Visit our website at www.cancer as a
metabolic disease.com to get your copy.
You can buy the ebook there directly and
the paperbook via the provided links.
Here's the best part. A portion of every
purchase goes directly to support Dr.
Thomas Safereaded's groundbreaking
research. That's why the direct ebook
purchase is the best option to donate as
much as possible. You can see all of the
donations Mr. Rocker has already made at
www. ketoforcancer.net.
That's right. When you buy our books,
you're not just investing in your own
knowledge. You're also contributing to
the future of cancer research. Help us
make a difference. Together, we can
drive change and save. They would have a
garden, a natural garden fertilized by
manure and these kinds of things and
they would eat healthy natural foods
because that was there was no global
distribution of food around the planet.
People were mostly local fors. They
would eat their lo their local foods and
they would be healthier and they would
have a lot of exercise and they would
have much less cancer, diabetes, they
were not obese. Okay. Only in the last
uh 50 75 years do you have the explosion
of all of these uh cancers and dementia.
Another one dementia that's another link
to to mitochondrial dysfunction in the
brain. Imbalances of energy metabolism.
All of this is perfectly explainable.
But we would prefer as a species to take
a pill in a cup of water. Okay, take
this pill, your cancer is going to go
away. Take this pill, your dementia is
going to go away. Take this pill, your
diabetes is going to go away. So uh you
know these these new drugs you give
everybody would rather take the pill
oampic or something like this get rid of
the right it's easy I don't want to do
exercise and diet diets and all this
stuff so I don't know what the long-term
consequences will be for that but we'll
have to wait and see you know if it
helps somebody great you know but anyway
I focus my attention on cancer and I
understand cancer because I have done
the research myself I have read many
hundreds and thousands of papers on
cancer. I put it all together. I have
the necessary background and the
knowledge to interpret data. That's what
I was trained to do as a geneticist and
a biochemist. Interpret data. So, I can
do this and I'm putting these links
together, but I feel like I must be
crazy because no one else can seem to
understand what I'm saying.
Uh a number of veterinary medicine
friends of mine are saying that you know
pets domesticated pets seems to be
having more incidence of cancer than
their
counterpart that are you know living in
the wild. What can you say about that?
>> Yeah it's true. Is that also the same as
how the human condition is in terms of
>> we we found that all domestic dogs are
derived from the wolf through our
selective breeding. We selected as a
species the traits in these dogs that
served our purpose whether it was to
hunt down a help an animal or a guard
dog or a retriever or whatever they were
selectively bred but they all came from
the wolf. Okay. Wild wolves cancer is
very r rare in in wild wolves. Uh we
found out the number one killer of
wolves is injuries, infections and
injuries uh not uh diabetes or cancer.
So why all the domestic dogs are are
affected with diabetes and cancer just
just like the human because the dogs are
eating highly processed carbohydrates in
a bag and they it's cheap. You just
throw the food into the a dog, eats it
up quick. And and they have they have
carbohydrates, vegetables, they got all
kinds of things a wolf would never eat.
Wolves do are basically carnivore. They
eat chickens and rats and mice, but they
don't eat uh corn and and they and they
don't eat spinach. They they don't eat
these kinds of things uh uh that. So
they're putting cornmeal and
carbohydrates in the dog foods. And the
dogs will eat anything. You know that
dogs will eat almost anything. And you
put a little smell of meat in there,
little fragrance of the meat. Oh,
they'll eat it all down. And they get
fat and they get diabetes and they get
cancer just like humans. No different.
[laughter]
That's cuz we're
>> modern
modern humans are like domesticated
animals. [laughter]
>> No different. Yeah. The guy goes to the
the the oncologist to take care of his
colon cancer and the dog goes to the
veterinarian to take care of the and
then they it's very interesting because
I had a student was a vet and they they
don't use a lot of the toxic chemicals
that are given to us for cancer
management on the dog like red devil
this Dr. rubicon that they give to many
cancer patients makes your urine red,
your eyeballs are red. That's why they
call it red devil. So, uh, they can't do
that to the dog because it's called
animal cruelty. The dog has vomiting and
diarrhea and all this kind of terrible
stuff from this drug. So, they can't use
some of the toxic drugs we give to
humans. We can't use it to the dog
because it's animal cruelty to treat the
dog with the same chemicals that we
treat ourselves with. I mean, the whole
thing is crazy. It It makes no sense.
And then we published a big paper on the
mass cell tumor on the dog's face. I got
that published in Frontiers. You should
look at that. The dog had a big ass
tumor on his face. Big on the lip, right
under the lip. The woman fed the dog
some vegetables and some fish. And the
tumor got big bigger. Then she read our
papers. Calorie restricted the dog. Raw
chicken, fish oil, and raw egg cut down
really. And within three months, the
damn tumor went away. Uh the dog was uh
died from old age from heart disease. uh
uh with heart failure from old age, not
from the return of the cancer. The dog
was very very healthy after it went on
metabolic therapy. Just happened to die
from old age.
[laughter]
Professor, let's let's backtrack a bit
to the genetics part because there are
certain cancers that have been let's say
established to have links to genetics
like for example breast cancer brick one
bricka 2 and uh like let's say lein
syndrome which is I think a problem with
the TP53
protein or gene.
>> Yeah. Yeah. P3.
>> Yeah. What's the connection between
these uh established gene mutations and
the metabolic
uh theory of cancer as your
>> okay we we we call them secondary risk
factors not primary risk factors the
primary factor for the origin of cancer
is insufficient oxidative
phosphorilation coupled to compensatory
fermentation. So how does Bracka 1 P-53
um um retinol blasto uh ret a couple of
these other mutate? We went through all
the so-called inherited germline risk
factors and we found that every one of
those genes in some way or another
disrupted oxidative phosphorilation
leading to a secondary fermentation. So
it's the gene mutation itself that
create that codes for a protein uh that
it that the gene product itself can
disturb oxidative phosphorilation like
p-53 encodes cytochrome c oxidase 2 in
the electron transport chain. Now the
interesting question so clearly and
everybody that develops a tumor from
P-53 mutation or BA1 or retinoplast
they're all fermenttors the cells are
all fermenting in these germline induced
cancers but we looked into it and said
how do we know that those germline
mutations are not primary risk factors
rather than secondary risk factors and
the answer is no inherent germline
mutation has ever been found to be 100%
penetrant which means that everyone who
has the mutation demonstrates the
neoplastic disregulated cell growth that
would be let me give you an example
Huntington's disease is due to a
mutation in the gene Huntington everyone
who inherits that mutation will develop
Huntington's disease so the primary
cause of the the neurodeener generation
is the m is the mutation Huntington
causing abnormal Huntington the protein
leading to neurodeeneration that's 100%
penetrint that's the prime primary cause
in cancer we have never found 100%
penetrance between the mutation and the
phenotype so that means the cancer
mutations are secondary risk factors and
will cause cancer only if the product of
the gene disrupts oxidative
phosphorilation leading to a
compensatory substrate level
phosphorilation. So what is the primary
cause of cancer and that is chronic
damage to oxidative phosphorilation
coupled to a compens compensatory
substrate level phosphorilation
occurring in the cytoplasm and in the
mitochondria. That is the origin of
cancer. Absolutely. And it and it and
it's been seen all over the gene
mutations are downstream effects. So
where do all these gene mutations come
from that we see in the nucleus?
>> They come from the reactive oxygen
question.
>> They come from the mitochondria.
>> So when the mitochondria are
dysfunctional, they produce ROS,
reactive oxygen species, the hydroxide
ion, the anion hydrox uh uh uh reactive
oxygen species. Hundreds of papers are
in the scientific literature showing
that ROS, reactive oxygen species are
carcinogenic and mutagenic. In other
words, they cause the mutations. Where
are they coming from? They're coming
from the mitochondria. Why are the
mitochondria producing all these ROSS?
Because they're mitochondria defective.
The oxygen is not being used for ATP
synthesis. It's being used for ROSS
production causing the damage in the
nucleus. So we spent a hundred billion
dollars trying to find mutations in the
nucleus all downstream effects of Ross
from the mitochondria and their effects
they're now causes. So we then designed
all these drugs to try to target the
mutations in the nucleus and and are
killing more people than than helping
people. So it's such a tragedy on every
level of understanding on every level of
our knowledge. But I talk to you. I talk
to all these other people. I have no
idea why nobody understands what I'm
talking about. I feel alone. [laughter]
I don't know what to say. And yet all
what I talked about is in the
literature. It's scientifically
established. It's not like I'm pulling
this out of my butt. I mean, this is
scientifically established truths and
facts that no one seems to be able to
understand when you put it all together
because they're locked into thinking
cancer is a genetic disease. And you're
100% correct when you say germline
mutation. Oh, it must be a genetic
disease. They're secondary risk factors.
They're not primary risk factors.
They're doing the same thing as a
chemical carcinogen, a virus or or in
chronic inflammation. They're doing the
same kinds of things to a particular
organ. So some woman may have breast
cancer. She had bracka 1 that happened
to damage mitochondria. Another woman
may have breast cancer. She had an
accluded milk duct leading to
intermittent hypoxia causing cancer.
Another one may have a chemical. It it
all depends. You look at under the
microscope, the pathologist say, "Oh,
you got stage four cancer." And then we
know that the how you get metastatic
cancer because because the epithelial
cells that start are not metastatic.
Immune cells come in to heal the wound,
fuse with this uh macrofasages can move
through our body uh to heal wounds and
kill bacteria. They fuse with the stem
cell and now they become metastatic.
disregulated mitochondria, a
disregulated macrofascist immune cell,
disregulated immune cell biology is the
origin of metastatic cancer. What do
they need to grow? They need glucose and
glutamine. So if I take away glucose and
glutamine, will I kill metastatic
cancer? Yes, absolutely.
So, so, so that that thing about
metastasis,
does that explain in terms of cancer as
a metabolic dysfunction, does that
explain the difference between a benign
tumor and a malignant tumor?
>> Absolutely. So, the benign tumors do not
have the characteristics of immune
cells. The benign tumor has no markers
of of immune cells like macrofasages or
dendritic cells. When you look at benign
tumors, they're pretty clean. When you
look at them away from the the the
tissue itself because in the tissue, you
have immune cells that come in and you
have to separate the normal immune cells
from the tumor cells. So when you do
that, the tumor cells have the the
benign tumors have no uh markers uh uh
of of the macrofasage. the metastatic
cells loaded with macrofage markers. So
that means there was a fusion
hybridization or something where the
stem cell fused. Don't forget macrofage
is part of the immune cell. They're
highly fusogenic cells. They like to
fuse with with themselves and other
cells to facilitate wound healing. So
what happens is they fuse with the with
the non-tastatic
stem cells and become these hybrid
cells. Now having a genetic capability
of moving around the body in a cell that
that biology that cell can normally do
that now it becomes a rogue. Why is it
rogue? Because the mitochondria in that
cell the mito the mitochondria are
defective leading to disregulated cell
growth and a rogue macrofage that now
spreads all over your body. I I I I
outlined all this. So then I said what
did they eat? They eat glutamine and
glucose. They can't live without it. So
boom, out go they So you can spend a
hundred billion dollars on trying to
figure out what kind of a biology it is.
All I know is they can't live without
the glucose and glutamine. So why don't
we kill all these tumor cells, enhance
the health and vitality of the patient,
and then go back and figure out uh what
was going on? Why do we have to kill
allow uh 1,700 people a day die in these
clinics needlessly when you guys are not
taking targeting what you're supposed to
be targeting to heal the patient? You
know, oh, the mechanisms haven't been
completely clear. They're clear enough
to know how to get rid of the damn
cancer. All you Why don't we go back and
figure out all the details, the minutia
after we help the patient survive?
What's wrong with that?
>> Why Why is that so contra? Why is that
so radical?
>> Yeah. going going to to to to that thing
you're talking about to a great extent.
Many of these things that we are talking
about right now is really controversial
to a lot of people. So in in your case
for the past uh years that you have been
doing your best to bring this out to the
public are you experiencing any kind of
push back from from any quarter any
industry?
>> Yeah. As a consequence to all these
efforts of yours.
Well, I think the uh the push I don't
see push back on me.
>> Uh when I talk to my colleagues who
don't believe anything I'm saying, they
just say the s the field says it's a
genetic disease. That's all I can say.
Okay. So, they they just go along
mindlessly with what we call
confirmation bias. So, uh they don't
read the I said, "Did you why don't you
read the literature and see if I'm
wrong?" Oh, they don't do that. They
just reside on what everybody else says.
So that that that's that's one thing. I
read these papers, I see the connections
and then I think I'm crazy. Then I give
the papers to my students and I say,
"Please read this to make sure I did not
re that I misinterpret the results." So
they say, "No, Professor Seaffrey, these
are your your idea of is correct." And
so I say, "Well, then it's not me that
I'm not crazy." So I have my students as
a filter to make sure I'm not crazy
because I read these things. I interpret
it this way. Do you see the con? Oh,
yeah. It's very clear. Well, how come
the field doesn't see that? So, the
cancer patients listen to what I'm
saying. It's a tragedy of another
monumental tragedy. They hear what I'm
saying, get all excited. Metabolic
therapy. I want metabolic therapy. Run
to the Dana Farber, the MD Anderson, all
these top cancer things, and they go in
and talk to their oncologists. And their
oncologist say, "Never heard of it. Must
be wrong. If it were right, I would have
heard about it in medical school." and
and they said glucose has nothing to do
with cancer. Uh that's a myth. Uh and
the poor cancer patients standing there
hearing what I just said and then go and
listen to the oncologist say completely
opposite that uh if it were important I
would have heard about it. Uh no
clinical trials on this therefore it
can't be right. Uh all kinds of things
not related to the science. Ask them did
you read the science? Did you
understand? No, no, no. I I didn't do
that. Well, how in the hell you're
making statements like that to the
cancer patients when you haven't even
read the science or even understand it.
That's the tragedy. That's the tragedy.
And then the poor cancer patient emails
you back, "My oncologist just threw me
out of the office because he said all
the stuff that I'm saying is a myth and
not supported." Well, why don't you read
the damn literature? [laughter] They
don't read the literature. They don't
understand the biology. And a lot of
times, it's not their fault. They were
never trained in medical school. They
were told cancer is a genetic disease
because the professors and the MD,
everybody in there told them it was a
genetic disease. Oh, it must be right.
And therefore, the chemical treatments
that I'm using are based on the fact
that this is a we have to stop DNA
replication. We got to poison them. Stop
the DNA replication. They can't
replicate DNA without energy. Man, don't
you understand? They need energy to
replicate DNA. Where they getting their
energy from? Fermentation. Take away the
fermentable fuels and help the patient.
Oh, no. I never heard of that.
really
>> this really brings out a lot of
curiosity in me because all these papers
that you've published out there it's
available for the entire public to see
and for all the other researchers to go
through and investigate and read for
themselves and perhaps even duplicate if
needed. My my question is has anybody
from the for example the American Cancer
Society or perhaps any of the societies
of the of the oncologist like the
American society of uh I think clinical
oncology for example. Has anyone of
these societies
uh invited you over to present your
research into their meetings and
conferences so that
most of them would be able to understand
this and apply it into their practice?
>> No.
>> My big question is why? Why?
>> Because it's [laughter] because it's a
radical uh Oh, one yes. one at the at at
the uh Henry Ford uh uh cancer center
invited me because of a a particular
person who who had a specific interest
and I told all the radiation oncologists
there that their therapies were
depriving the patients of longer term
survival. Um and how do you think that
went over? Not well. Um, so, uh, and
though it would be one thing for me to
tell them that their treatments are
reducing the overall survival of their
cancer patients, giving them all the
evidence to support that. If I were, why
do you think I was not attacked? I was
not attacked. It wasn't Somebody didn't
stand up and say, "Let me show you all
the evidence to say why you're wrong."
They just sat there stonefaced looking
at me.
Top guys in the field sitting stonefaced
looking at me.
Why is that? If I were wrong, they would
have peeled me uh up and down because
they know they can't attack my I'm I'm
looking at the evidence, the scientific
evidence. They do not have the
scientific evidence that I have, nor do
they want to look at it. That's the
other problem. Why? This is not any
different than what Capernacus and G why
Galileo supported Capernicus's
heliocentric theory. He had the
telescope that absolutely supported what
Capernacus was saying. And the Catholic
Church refused to even look into the
telescope to support what Galileo. So
they arrested him for his life. They
burned Guillodono Bruno at the state
because you're threatening power
structures. This is what you're doing.
You're threatening a power structure.
And when you threaten power structures,
they don't want to know anything about
it. They ignore it. So it's just the and
they'll just say oh seaf is too radical.
No I'm not radical. The scientific data
are radical to what you think that they
are. It's the data that are that are
there and you choose not to re you
choose not to look in the telescope and
you choose not to look at the evidence.
That's the that so this is
non-scientific. There's something other
than science. It's the way the human
brain perceives things. You know who's
right. Very few people look at critical
but there are it's slowly changing
slowly changing people you know why
because people want to live
>> yeah or it is very let's say disruptive
to a lot of big business that thrives on
cancer therapy I suppose
>> yeah well I mean okay then cancer
patients should know that the cancer
patients job is to maintain ain a
profitable industry. Thank you very much
for your disease. I'm so happy that you
have this cancer. It maintains a giant
profitable industry. So, but I'm not
saying that we we have to have a hybrid
system. Uh this is a disruptive
technology only because it's based on
hard science. But, uh it doesn't mean
that we can't use radiation and chemo
under certain circumstances to enhance
the therapeutic benefit of metabolic
therapy. There has to be some coming
together of standards of care blended
now with our better understanding of the
science of the disorder and let the
field develop uh so that new industries
profitable can replace old industries
that were profitable. So we don't want
to create too much of a radical dis
disturbance but a blended change based
on our understanding of what the nature
of the disease is. So that has to come.
It will come easier if we recognize the
science, accept the science, and adjust
the system to the new reality of what
the nature of this disease is. Thereby,
everybody benefits. The patients live
longer and healthier, and the industries
adjust their profit margins in a
different direction. But I don't think
most people would mind paying a
significant price for something that
doesn't harm them and gives them the
chance to live longer. I think they'll
be happy to pay for something like this.
But right now, we're paying for toxic
poisons that take away in many folks
their longevity or if they do survive,
their body is so compromised by poisons
that they don't live a comfortable life
after surviving toxic poisons and
treatments as currently given by the
standard of care. Let's change this, but
not get rid of it. blend it in so it
becomes used correctly and more
knowledgeably than is currently being
done right now. This is what the hope
is. The bottom line is how long we can
keep terminal cancer patients alive with
a higher quality of life and an overall
survival and metabolic therapy can
absolutely do that. The evidence is
being accumulated. Brad and Maggie Jones
a movie on the cancer revolution.
They're collecting all these stage four
cancer patients that are surviving on
metabolic therapy. And I think a blended
system of standards of care together
with metabolic therapy will offer at the
beginning the best opportunity to move
the needle, the survival needle, and
eventually new new ideas will come as
this field moves forward. So I'm I'm
absolutely convinced of this, but you
know, how long will it take? Patients
need to know, oncologists need to know,
scientists needs to know. I'm sure
there's and my colleagues that work with
me daily know and understand this.
They're just as frustrated as I am. They
see it. They see the data. They collect
the data. How come nobody knows about we
published these papers in the scientific
literature and oh well that's a fluke.
This is not real for the I mean this
this has to stop. But this is consistent
with the capernician revolution.
Absolutely consistent with what we saw
at that time. The only problem today is
if you thought the sun or the earth was
the center of the solar system, it
wasn't linked to 1,700 people a day
dying from dying as the result of your
misunderstanding. But today we have that
tragedy that's linked to the
misunderstanding.
>> So, so, so knowing what we now know
based on on the the this uh let's say
proven assumptions that cancer is indeed
a metabolic disease. Would you say that
we can safely say that cancer now has a
would would you approach it that way?
>> No, not yet. Not yet. I can't say that.
I don't know because okay if you have if
you have cancer today and uh you take uh
a metabolic therapy and the tumor seems
to go away and you live to be 98 years
old and die from old age and you never
had a recurrence of the cancer only then
can you say metabolic therapy cure
cancer but suppose you took it today and
15 years later uh the tumor comes back
or something along these lines. Okay. So
were you cured? No, you you were given a
longer uh pro progressionfree survival
they call it. When does progression free
survival extend into overall survival?
The the we don't know that yet. We have
to treat patients uh uh carefully. We as
we speak right now we have a major
treatment protocol under review
comprehensive for glyobblasto.
Once that treatment protocol with over
40 authors uh 35 authors on this paper
MDs and scientists uh who've looked at
the data looked at the strategy uh we
have gone through a very um a very
comprehensive analysis of of patient
responses that could happen or might not
how to adjust all this. It's a it's a
comprehensive treatment protocol for
glyobblasto that could have easily be
used for all major cancers. But we use
glyopblasto because there's very almost
everybody dies that has GBM. So so if we
can manage GBM and keep people alive 10
uh 10 times longer five or 10 times
longer than would be expected obviously
we know what the hell we're talking
about and we know what we're doing. So
we would then trans which modify that
for all major cancers and then you're
going to begin to see the clinical
trials and we have to certify MDs. We're
setting up a certification program in
Switzerland so that people who have an
MD license to practice medicine can
become certified can become certified to
treat uh patients with metabolic
therapy. So it's happening. It's an
educational mission up and down the
scale. The physicians need to know what
to do and how to do it. And uh the the
system needs to know that it's a
mitochondrial metabolic disease. And
that's why what we're doing will have
optimal results far greater results far
greater than what's currently being seen
with standards of care which are largely
based on an incorrect theory of what the
nature of the disease is. So clearly
it's a work in progress. Uh I'm happy to
be uh a spearhead uh on this only
because I have seen the evidence to
support what I am saying over and over
and over again and how much we can
improve what I'm saying. This is just
the tip of the eye. This is just the
beginning. And whenever you start a
beginning, you you you can improve it
significantly with an understanding. So
this is the beginning of a new realm in
cancer. Cancer being treated as what it
should be. It's a metabolic disorder and
it can be managed much more effectively
once people come to understand the
science and the outcome of what's
happened. So I have no question and no
doubt about it. Absolutely no doubt
about it.
>> Let's say uh divert a bit to to to diet
and lifestyle professor. So because it
has been an established factory that a
high carbohydrate diet or a diet high in
sugar for for instance has led to a lot
of metabolic diseases that are
considered as modern diseases nowadays.
So would you say that since based on the
Warborg effect and the fermentation of
glucose as something that propels the
growth of these cancer cells, would you
say that this
causes cancer?
Like for example, the high carbohydrate
diet is
causing cancer.
>> Uh it's it's not. First of all, sugar
itself is not a carcinogen. Okay. So, uh
glucose is not a carcinogen. Um sugar is
not a carcinogen. In other words, if I
put sugar uh on a mutagenic assay, you
don't get mutations from from sugar.
High carbohydrate diets consumed in
excess uh you know you have high fat
carbohydrates together create an
inflammatory system. So it's the chronic
inflammation in the body produced from a
consumption of high carbohydrate highfat
diets. It's not it's not just highfat
without carbohydrate
you lose weight on those diets. Okay? If
you like ketogenic but again we calorie
restrict everything. That's why I
developed the glucose ketone index
calculator here at Boston College so
that anybody eating whatever diet they
want can stay within a a range of
therapeutic ketosis. But uh yes, if you
eat a Snickers bar or jellyfilled donut,
uh you're going to fly right out of
nutritional ketosis real fast. Um and
same with our Paleolithic ancestors. If
they were to eat a piece of ripe fruit
at the at a critical point in the
season, uh they would their nutritional
ketosis would be reduced to some degree.
Honey is another example of a of a of a
sweet food uh that our ancestors would
have wanted, but you know, the bees
protect honey uh and that can be used.
And of course the biggest uh origin of
of carbohydrates cames from come from
the neolithic period where we learned
how to grow uh grains, wheat, uh corn or
rice uh these kinds of things that had a
lot more carbohydrate giving giving us a
lot more energy. But you it's everything
is in balance. Today we have highly
processed carbohydrates with minimal
nutritional value in an environment with
minimal exercise in an highly stressed
environment. This climate change is
freaking people out sitting around
looking at a cell phone all day long and
a computer getting fat. uh all of these
things together contribute to an
unhealthy physiology thereby leading to
cancer uh h diabetes hypertension all
the things that you mentioned so-called
chronic diseases so if we understand
what the origin of this is at least we
can do something within our power to
mitigate at least some of this but right
now most people never heard that glucose
is a problem uh we see little children
that are morbid ly obese. Uh this is a
form of child neglect. But the parents
are not trained to know that. So when
you have a lack of knowledge, the
outcomes can be catastrophic
uh throughout the world. And what I'm
saying is that you just need to
understand the science. Uh that's why I
spent a lot of time here at Boston
College emphasizing scientific literacy.
It's important for your health and
vitality to be scientifically literate.
And a lot of times we don't have that
even either in the media and and the new
[clears throat] we're constantly
confronted by contradictory evidence.
Oh, he can eat that. It's healthy. No,
he shouldn't eat that. It's unhealthy.
The pyramid is upside down. No, the
pyramid's right side up. Uh what is the
poor guy on the street supposed to do?
He says, "The hell with it. I'm just
going to do what I do all the time. I'm
going to get fat and I'm going to put
myself at risk." So you just need to
know uh what to do and how to do it. You
need to be scientifically literate and
cancer puts the fear of God into you. So
believe me cancer is one way to uh
address all these chronic diseases if I
can mitigate that reduce that. So that's
that's where it stands. So, so in that
case if you are saying that the the
ketogenic diet has a big role there
whether it is especially if it's calorie
restricted would would you say that a
carnivore diet pure meat diet which more
or less would put patient in strict
nutritional ketosis would that be more
or less as effective? you know uh what
what I I everybody is different
metabolically to some degree. There are
different weights, different cultures,
uh different sexes. Uh everybody is a
unique metabolic person. But what we
have to do is we have to say what works
for that person. Does a carnivore diet
work for him? A vegetarian diet, a
Mediterranean diet, a pescatarian diet,
whatever can bring that glucose ketone
index into 2.0 or below is the zone
we're trying to hit. So again that
depends on the individual, how healthy
they are, how we move from one state to
the next and that's your job. The job of
the physician is to know what is the
best metabolic strategy to bring that
person into nutritional ketosis. Uh
would it be a carnivore for this guy, a
vegetarian for that guy, a Mediterranean
for that guy? We don't know. But then
you monitor and see how the glucose
ketone index is is going. Then once
you're in that zone, you say, "Yes, my
patient is now in nutritional ketosis."
Then you've given them the parasite
medications, high IV vitamin C,
hyperbaric oxygen, all of these kinds of
things that will super enhance the
health and vitality of the normal cells
of the body by and targeting the tumor
cell. But each person may be different.
that that's why the knowledge of the
physician in working with patients they
make a decision with that patient to see
what would work best for that person.
That's why one shoe one approach may not
be applicable to all patients. So this
makes the medic this makes the practice
of medicine very very exciting because
now you're working with every individual
as an individual but knowing what what
commonalities you might see by changing
these parameters and some person may be
tweaked in this direction or the other
direction depending upon what the
physician sees and the overall health
that person feels about the treatment
you know oh I can't eat fish oh I can't
eat vegetables or I can't eat meat uh
well then we'll match the diet for your
particular situation uh and we'll see
how well we can get you down into those
zones. So again, it's going to be a work
in progress, but it's going to be
exciting because for the first time
you're going to see dramatic results and
you'll see I have a strategy that I've
seen work better on this kind of a guy
than that kind of a guy. So you write it
down and then they share it with others
because it's going to be a whole new
world of seeing how well people respond
based upon new things rather than the
same thing over and over again. So uh I
think it's going to be a real opening to
medicine that we have not yet
experienced.
>> Yeah, this is still within the realm of
diet professor because many have said
that meat, you know, eating meat
promotes cancer or increases the
incidence of cancer. If I remember it
right, I think even the Harvard Thchan
School of Public Health even mentioned
something like that to that effect. Uh
but the thing is when you eat mostly
meat, you most you mostly keep yourself
on a ketogenic
state. So how does that reconcile with
this researchers that say that eating
meat promotes cancer?
>> Well, then all of our
>> Well, that Native Americans should have
been riddled with cancer. Eskimos should
have been riddled with cancer. Our
paleolithic period should have been
devastated. They would that's they ate
meat all the time. Eskimos eating
blubber walruses and fish and meat and
all this kind of stuff. Uh why these
people never had had very low cancer. Uh
it makes no sense when you look at the
studies done from the the the Chan
school. They're not eating just meat.
There was a bun in there. Uh there was
other things that were in there that it
wasn't just meat. And uh how much don't
forget we were we evolved. Everything
has to go back to our evolution. Who
were we? Who were we as a species? Where
did we come from? Okay, we evolved just
like all other species in an environment
that was harsh, cold, arid. We had to
survive on anything that would crawl,
walk, or fly on this planet. We were
carnivores, omnivores. We had to arrive
through that. And when you live in that
traditional diet and lifestyle, you
diabetes, cancer, high blood pressure,
all that stuff is much less common. So
they were meat eaters. Why are those
folks didn't have all kinds of cancers
that we have today? It has to do with
highly processed foods. These meats are
raised in hormonal and chemical
environments. We're eating too much of
it along with the organ baked potatoes
and and other things that are all
engineered to be sweet and tasty. So if
you go back, let me show you somebody
who's eating the in the wild. He eats
elk, right? He eats kangaroos. He eats
these kinds of things, natural things,
right? Bison, buffaloos, and this kind
of stuff that are organic. Those guys
don't have cancer. Very little, very
rare to get cancer in those
environments. Okay. cinema here in New
York City in Boston coming out eating
big burgers with with uh uh baked
potatoes smothered in in in in sour
creams and salts and all this kind of
stuff with a big dessert at the end. You
know, you're putting yourself at risk
for all these kinds of things. But I
would say highly processed carbs are
with lack of exercise and highly
processed carbohydrates probably are are
linked more closely to chronic diseases
than is eating meat uh by itself. Show
me a guy who goes to a restaurant and
says, you know, I'll have a filt of myan
that big, a little bit that, and that's
the only thing I'm going to eat now for
three days. Believe me, his his cancer
risk is going to be extremely low. Um,
this is the way our ancestors were. We
didn't have big meals three times a day.
Come home, sit down, have a big meal,
eat a big breakfast. I mean, we're
constantly on the move. So, we have to
say the majority of our existence on the
planet was hunter gather trying to track
down, kill something, and eat it. Well,
only within since the Neolithic period,
the last couple thousand years. And then
only within the last 50, we had the
highly processed world distribution of
highly processed carbohydrates. Foods
consider I have Twinkies here. You see
these Twinkies right here? Okay. I
bought them 10 years ago. Okay. I bought
these Twinkies 10 years ago. Look at it.
They look like they're brand new, right?
They they look like they just fresh.
They're a little stale, but they look
perfect. I had a mouse that broke into
the box and ate one of these things. A
10-year-old Twinkie. And I'm saying,
"Wow." You know, he he didn't die, but
he probably didn't get healthy eating it
either. the the the the thing of it is
is that's high processed carbohydrates
right there. You eat enough of these
every day and you're going to get
diabetes, uh uh dementia, high blood
pressure, and cancer if you eat enough
of these kinds of things. So, uh yeah, I
think they're an enjoyable treat. You
know, once every year, eat a Twinkie.
Once every six months, have a Twinkie.
It's not going to kill you. But if you
put them every day along with highly
processed foods and all these other
things, don't be surprised if you get
cancer and dementia and all these other
kinds of things. So yeah, highly
processed carbohydrates, lack of
exercise, emotional stress. You put it
all together, you got diabetes, you got
all these chronic diseases, cancer being
one of them. Not a mystery.
Mhm.
>> You you mentioned earlier professor
about this press strategy that you are
bringing out for cancer patients. So my
my question is can can you expand a
little bit on that? How is that done?
And if ever some people or especially
those inflicted with cancer right now
would like to undergo the press pulse
strategy. What what will they do? What
are their options? Can they go to their
oncologist and ask for something like
that with their oncologist?
>> No. He thinks cancer is a genetic
disease. So, he's not going to help you.
Uh, and they're very And the other thing
that's a problem with the oncologists is
they're locked into the standard of
care. Even if they want to do metabolic
therapy, they can't do it. They're going
to lose their they could could lose
their license to practice medicine. So
if you come to them and say I want a
press pulse metabolic therapy they never
heard of it number one can't do it
number two even if they did hear about
it. So how do you how do you address you
have to retrain the oncology field. So
press pulse is just lowering blood sugar
and pulsing glutamine. Okay. So what
what we do uh what not me but my
physician colleagues uh they take the
patient they do a complete blood work
and see how close or far off
metabolic homeostasis they are put them
on a zero carb diet for about 10 or 14
days get them back into metabolic
homeostasis and then give them uh
antiarasite medications. The best
medication which is the glutamine
targeting drug Dawn is not is not
available. uh they said, "Oh, it was too
toxic." So I went back and looked at the
human data from the early days by McGill
and the toxicity was not nearly as bad
as Red Devil, Dr. Rubeson, or some of
these other drugs they give you. So why
they threw it off? Well, they said it
didn't work. It only worked on some
people. Well, you never targeted the
glucose at the same time you targeted
the glutamine. You got to target the two
fuels together to get optimal patient
outcome after the person is in
nutritional ketosis. So all of the tools
for cancer management effectively are
already developed. We don't need
anything new. We just have to know how
to use the tools better that we already
have. And that press pulse therapeutic
strategy allows you to use better the
tools that are already available in the
tool chest. We have them. We just got to
have people that know, oh, in this case
we use that tool. In this case we use
this tool. We don't just do what we're
doing because the outcome is abysmal
today. So, press pulse therapeutic
strategy is based on evolutionary
biology, an understanding of the
biochemistry and biology of the very
tumor cells that exist and and that's
the based on the facts of our
understanding. That's what press and it
will become eventually the standard of
care. I just don't know how long it's
going to take.
So I have an audience who was asking
because she knew that I was going to
talk to you. She would like to ask you
this. I think she's based in there in
the US. How could I get my oncologist to
work with you and your protocol rather
than going with the conventional route
of treatment for cancer? Is there a way
for that
presently?
>> I don't know. This is the problem. This
is the singular biggest problem. How are
you going to change the system? Why? I'm
st I feel terrible. I I don't I I feel
good because I understand the science. I
I I enjoy talking about it to other
people. I've looked at it. But I get
terribly frustrated when the patient
gets all excited and goes to the
oncologist and gets slapped down saying,
"Everything that I'm saying is a myth.
There's no evidence to support what I'm
saying." and the poor patient gets so
upset and and doesn't know what to do.
Um that's why I give a kit of
information out to the cancer patients
at least gives them some knowledge and
then maybe they can talk to somebody. I
tell you some of the oncologists I mean
they didn't go into this field to hurt
people. They went into the field to help
people. Um but the the system is
training them to use therapies that are
not effective for the majority of
patients and harm so many people through
the toxicity. Um I think it has to come
from several sources. It to uh change
the system and allow that person who
asked the question to get an appropriate
uh treatment from a knowledgeable uh
oncologist because she'll ask the
oncologist what I'm saying and he never
heard of anything that I'm talking
about. How is that possible? So he needs
to be educated and he needs to know what
to do. And the oncologists themselves
must help change the system. Are they
capable of changing the very who is the
system? Who is the system controlling
what these oncologists and how they
treat their cancer patients? Who writes
the standard of care? The standard of
care should never have been written in
granite. It has to be modified as new
information comes along. But yet it is
not modifiable. I think maintenance of
the status quo prevents these
oncologists from making the necessary
adaptations so they can blend standard
of care. Why are they not allowed to
blend standards of care with metabolic
therapy? Why do they refuse to blend
standard of care with metabolic therapy?
Why is the system so rigid that allows
no flexibility in what these people are
doing? So all of these are very I I
can't address that. All I can do is give
the scientific evidence for what I'm
saying and why it should be done because
of the nature of what the nature of the
disease is. But then the system must
adapt and recognize for the best
interests of the millions of people that
are suffering from cancer. They need to
make the change. There's no need for why
we have all of these people brutalized
by a system that does not want to change
for a variety of reasons. How do you do
that? That poor person goes to the
oncologist on says I want seafreeze
metabolic therapy. Oh no, it doesn't
exist. Never heard of it. Well, what how
is she supposed to get treated then if
the very person helping her has no clue
about what what he's doing? Not because
of his inadequacies, because of his
training in the system telling him what
must be done. So this is has to be
viewed uh uh patients have to put
pressure on their oncologist put
pressure on the system how you change
national cancer institute of the United
States of America should understand what
the hell I'm saying yet they don't or
refuse to. Now how do you explain that?
How do you explain the head of the
National Institutes CA inst National
Cancer Institute putting on their
website that cancer is a genetic disease
despite the massive evidence to say that
it it's not? How do they feel
comfortable sleeping at night? Well,
they never heard of what I'm saying.
Why? Well, they never read the articles.
And most people say, "What do you think?
What do you think?" Oh, no, he's wrong.
Oh, okay. He must be wrong. Well,
they're not reading the literature.
They're listening to some other fool,
another adult. You know, the the the the
problem here is it's systemic all over.
How is it going to change? I don't know.
But people basically want to live.
That's that's the motivation. The
motivation is that if you don't adapt,
you're going to be dead and mis die
miserably. So, you're going to have to
you're going to have to change.
>> Correlary to that, what what message do
you think should be imparted from your
end to doctors the world over? Like for
example, clinicians like me who are at
the forefront of managing cancer
patients and most especially the
oncologist, the cancer specialist.
>> Here's here's what I would suggest. Look
at our press pulse therapy. Look at it
carefully. Uh look at what I'm saying
and the articles that I'm saying. Cancer
is a mitochondrial metabolic disease
driven by glucose and glutamine and and
transition the body over to nutritional
ketosis. I have outlined what needs to
be done to do this.
Why don't a few clinicians on their own,
and you don't have to be an oncologist
to do this, by the way. I mean, you're
doing blood work. You're looking at
blood work for crying out loud. A
patient's blood work. Oh, look at he has
low vitamin D. He is triglycerides too
high. All this kind of stuff. You can as
a physician say, "Okay, I want to put
this patient on a have them do a low
carbohydrate diet, measure your glucose
ketone index, and when you hit 2.0 zero
below. We're now going to give you
parasite medications at dosages that are
known to be non-toxic to patients. So,
we already have all the evidence. See uh
how the patient responds. Uh do uh CAT
scan, MRI on the tumor. Uh uh see, oh,
it was there, now it's gone. Oh, the
lump was big, now it's smaller. Wow,
let's tweak it this way. Tweak it. based
on the experience of the physician
knowing how patients respond to certain
procedures, he can be recording the data
on these patients themselves. And I'm
writing the case reports. Look at Pablo
Kelly's case report that I wrote. Five
years of him measuring glucose ketone
index. Who would do that? The patients
play a very important role in their
success. So they have to realize as a
cancer patient, you are no longer a
bystander. you are now an active
participant in your health care. So they
have to work with the physician as a
team. The physician is telling them
measure your glucose ketone index. Then
the patient says oh I'm not eating any
carbohydrates but my GKI is still 20
above. Well then stop eating everything.
Go on a water only fasting. And then
they'll say well I don't know if I can
do that. Well then you obviously don't
want to live. [laughter]
You know the ch you have choices. you
want to live or you don't want to live.
You get your GKI and the metabolic and
the parasite medications thrown in on
top of that and then you start to see
the change. And if you had Dawn and some
of these other glutamine targeting
drugs, you'd see you'd see a
tremendously improved. And we're still
working out the details. We're still
working out the details. I'm not saying
we have the solution to all what we know
is all cancers or the majority of all
major cancers need fermentation. How do
we best uh target the two fuels driving
the fermentation while putting the
patient in nutritional ketosis? And that
the physician and the patient work
together as a team to do that. And the
now we have uh monitors on the arm so
you can get information to your cell
phone. The cell phone can go right to
the the physician's laptop and he could
be looking on a on a real-time basis.
All of a sudden, he's got a beautiful
GKI and it springs up to 50. What
happened? Oh, I thought I didn't know
that banana would have that kind of an
effect on my blood glucose. Don't eat
the banana.
So, I mean, right now, we have the
technology to make this a really
happening thing um uh at at a at a
reasonable cost, not something that is
going to break the bank. So, it's
coming. We have everything in available.
We just need to know how to use it
correctly.
>> Yeah. Precisely. If that patient of
mine, the one I talked to you about, the
non small cell lung cancer with multiple
brain metastasis does survive for quite
a longer period of time that what than
what's expected of him and if he really
did that strict ketogenic diet
>> and I think it would be worth uh doing a
case report.
>> Well, you got to I would say get the uh
get the the glutamine targeting drug,
the medic the parasite medications you
>> Yeah. Yeah, Ivormectin and Bendazol, Fen
Bendazol, um, all of those. Once your
patient is in nutritional ketosis, then
you can launch these various parasite
medications as cocktails at the same
time. Um, and you if you have hyperbaric
oxygen, they can sit in the chamber when
they're in nutritional ketosis. That'll
put oxidative stress more on the tumor
cell than on the normal cell. So, so all
of these things can be add-ons. And the
goal is how long can I keep my patient
alive with a higher quality of life? You
know, that's that's the thing. Yeah. And
uh I have guys I can't I I I see people
email me several years later that say,
"Hey, listen. I'm still alive." Uh
I thought he said, you know, I thought
this guy would have been dead and he's
still alive. So even Pablo Kelly uh is
still alive. But I'm seeing many many
people um alive uh and they're happy. Uh
they're they're not suffering. Uh so uh
I I consider that great great success.
Uh you'll see it too uh once you start
looking at what we're doing and modify
it for your own patient population and
have the patients record their own
glucose ketone data so they know what
they're doing and why they're doing it.
Now you have a compliant person.
you know, some patients are
non-compliant. There's always going to
be a guy who doesn't want to do
anything. Well, forget about them.
That's his that's his misfortune. We've
got to focus on the people who really
want to help themselves and work with
you. I I am not in the business of
trying to take somebody who doesn't want
to be compliant. I say, "Hell with them.
I don't care about you. I'm only
interested in the guys that are want to
know about this and want to stay alive
for their family and and other members."
So, see, I'm not like a physic. I don't
have to be a physic. I'm not a
physician. I don't tolerate guys that
don't want to know and this stuff. I
throw them the hell out. I want to know
who's going to be good and because I
need to get those data and once the
world gets the data then it's going to
be more of an instit a standard of care.
So we need to have good compliant people
and and when Pablo Kelly became
non-compliant after his first surgical
debulking he started to eat sweets and
high carbohydrate diets again and we saw
the tumor return. It came back. Oh. Oh
yes. And then it put the fear of God
back into him and he went back and the
tumor. Oh yes. It's unbelievable.
>> I mean it's going to be s you're going
to see it with your own patients. It's
going to be unbelievable. So and then
when they're non-compliant the tumor
will tell them that they are
non-compliant. You don't have to tell
them. The tumor will tell them.
[laughter]
I'll surely be getting in touch with you
over and over and over again regarding
these things.
>> Well, once we get once we get the
protocol written, then you'll have it in
hand and then you can use it as a tool
in your own clinic and your buddies,
your friends, it's going to all tap into
the same thing and you'll start to see
these dramatic changes. Unbelievable.
You'll come to see it. It's just a
matter of time. I just got to get it
out, published it.
>> Yeah. Yeah. That's very wonderful
indeed.
So uh we really had a very very
informative
and quite extensive conversation out
there professor. So re really really
very very grateful for that. Thank you
very much for all those that you have
shared here in this podcast. Uh should
anyone listening to this podcast session
right now would like to follow your work
or perhaps support all your efforts in
cancer research where where may they
follow your go-to?
>> Uh yeah well thank you very much for
that. Um all of my support to do what I
am doing comes from private foundations
and philanthropy.
uh there are people uh who want to be
part of the of this new paradigm change
um and support me through either giving
money to Travis Kristofferson's
Foundation for Cancer Metabolic Therapy
which is a foundation that supports our
research Travis Christopherson's
foundation for cancer metabolic
approaches or therapies. [clears throat]
>> I'll put that in the show notes below
this
>> and also also the Boston College my
Boston College biology page at the
university. If you put my biology page,
there's a donation. It's called Boston
College Cancer Research and people can
make a donation to my research directly
through the university or uh through
Travis Kristofferson's foundation or
some people say I have my own foundation
and I want to support you. They can
support me from their own foundation
through the university. I am not capable
of taking it uh any money personally
from anybody. I have to go through
either private foundation or the
university. So that's that supports me
through the institution. And then I hire
people and I test more drugs and
procedures in my pre-clinical system to
make sure it works and it's not toxic.
And then my clinician friends, my
physician friends working in the clinics
apply that to their patients and let me
know how it's working. So it's a my
research sets the platform preclinally
so that the folks my colleagues in the
clinic can apply it to their patients
and then they feed back information to
me. I readjust my pre-clinical system
and prove it and I send it back to them.
So it's a back and forth from the
pre-clinical to the clinical from the
pre the clinical back to the preclinical
and I I use that information and that's
how we improve constantly improve the
system to make it better for all people.
Do you think that's also applicable to
people who would like to ask for your
assistance outside the United States or
is it just available there in the US?
>> Yeah, I get I get uh uh hundreds and
hundreds of emails from people around
the world. No question about it.
>> Yes, from the Philippines. Uh yes, from
China, uh Australia, New Zealand, you
name it. Everywhere in the world, people
are emailing me. uh they all want to get
knowledge and they want to know what
they can do uh to help either themselves
or some loved one in their family. Um
and uh the stories I get are absolutely
horrific. I mean I I sometimes have to
step away from what I'm reading from the
torturous uh activities of of people
trying to being treated by terrible
terrible uh things. So yeah. So any
event, yeah, our research is supported
by by private foundations and
philanthropy and as long as we continue
to get the funds, the more we're going
to improve the system and make the
change faster. So the more money that I
get to do my research and publish the
scientific articles and peer-reviewed
publications, the faster the paradigm
will change.
I do hope we can all work towards that
common goal of really controlling and
eradicating hopefully the scars of
cancer in the world today or even just
significantly diminishing the rate of
death
>> from cancer today which I think based on
the fact that cancer is indeed a
metabolic disease that is indeed
achievable.
>> Yeah, absolutely. I agree. I agree with
you.
>> So with that, I thank you very much,
Professor Seaf Freed, for everything
that you have explained here in this
podcast and I hope everybody listening
in have indeed learned a lot out of our
con conversation today. So again, thank
you very much. Well, I Well, thank you
very much because Well, thank you very
much because it's your podcast that gets
the word out as well.
>> So, your podcast allows more and more
people to hear the information. So, you
are uh just as important in a way as I
am. So thank you very